[Python] querying articles batch 1 [Replace C# samples] (#1797)
ravendb/docs: Documentation/5.4/Raven.Documentation.Pages/client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query.python.markdown

# Customize Query

---

{NOTE: }

> * Use `customize()` to set the following customization options on a specific [query](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-query).   

Reviewer: we don't call `customize` in Python, the approach is different - all necessary methods are available in the `query` like 

```py
 session.query(object_type=Employee).add_after_query_executed_listener(my_callback_function)
```

Reviewer: `customize` isn't a thing here - but to mirror the results we're providing examples

Author: done

  Can be set for both **dynamic** and **index** queries.

> * Each such customization can also be implemented via the [document_query](../../../client-api/session/querying/document-query/what-is-document-query) API.

Reviewer: let's drop that line

Author: dropped

> * A query can also be customized on the Store or Session level by subscribing to `on_before_query`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A query can also be customized on the Store or Session level by calling `add_before_query`.  
```

Author: done

  Learn more in [Subscribing to Events](../../../client-api/session/how-to/subscribe-to-events). 

* Customization methods available:

  - [before_query_executed](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#before_query_executed)
  - [after_query_executed](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#after_query_executed)
  - [after_stream_executed](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#after_stream_executed)
  - [no_caching](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#no_caching)
  - [no_tracking](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#no_tracking)
  - [projection](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#projection)
  - [random_ordering](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#random_ordering)
  - [timings](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#timings)
  - [wait_for_non_stale_results](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#wait_for_non_stale_results)

* [Methods return value](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-customize-query#methods-return-value)

{NOTE/}

---

{PANEL: `before_query_executed`}

> * Use `before_query_executed` to customize the query just before it is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use `before_query` to customize the query just before it is executed.
```

* You can use the `no_tracking` customization to disable entity tracking.  

* See [disable entity tracking](../../../client-api/session/configuration/how-to-disable-tracking) for all other options.

{NOTE: }

**Example**

{CODE-TABS}
{CODE-TAB:python:Query customize_5_1@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}
{CODE-TAB:python:RawQuery customize_5_4@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}
{CODE-TABS/}

{NOTE/}

{NOTE: }

**Syntax**

{CODE:python customize_5_5@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}

{NOTE/}

{PANEL/}

{PANEL: `projection`}

* By default, when [querying an index](../../../indexes/querying/query-index) and projecting query results,  
  the server will try to retrieve field values from the fields [stored in the index](../../../indexes/storing-data-in-index).  
  {NOTE: }
  Projecting means the query returns only specific document fields instead of the full document.  
  {NOTE/}

* If these fields are not stored in the index, the field values will be retrieved from the documents.  

> * Use the `projection` method to customize and modify this behavior.  

Author: done

  An exception is thrown if the document does not contain the requested field.  

{NOTE/}
-->

{PANEL/}

{PANEL: `random_ordering`}

* Use `random_ordering` to order the query results randomly.  

* Learn [here](../../../client-api/session/querying/sort-query-results) about additional ordering options.  

{NOTE: }

**Example**

{CODE-TABS}
{CODE-TAB:python:Query customize_7_1@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}
{CODE-TAB:python:RawQuery customize_7_4@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}
{CODE-TABS/}

{NOTE/}

{NOTE: }

**Syntax**

{CODE:python customize_7_5@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}

| Parameters | Type | Description                                                                                              |
|------------| ------------- |-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **seed**   | `str` | Order the search results randomly using this seed.<br>Useful when executing repeated random queries. |

{NOTE/}

{PANEL/}

{PANEL: `timings`}

* Use `timings` to get detailed stats of the time spent by the server on each part of the query.

> * The timing statistics will be included in the query results.

Reviewer: similar case to `with_statistics`
`timings` takes `timings_callback` as an argument 

```py
    def timings(self, timings_callback: Callable[[QueryTimings], None]) -> DocumentQuery[_T]: ...
```

Author: done

* Learn more in [how to include query timings](../../../client-api/session/querying/debugging/query-timings).

{NOTE: }

**Example**

{CODE-TABS}
{CODE-TAB:python:Query customize_9_1@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}
{CODE-TAB:python:RawQuery customize_9_4@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}
{CODE-TABS/}

{NOTE/}

{NOTE: }

**Syntax**

{CODE:python customize_9_5@ClientApi\Session\Querying\HowToCustomize.py /}

| Parameters | Type | Description |
|------------| ------------- | ----- |

> | **timings** | `QueryTimings` | An out param that will be filled with the timings results |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **timings_callback** | `Callable[[QueryTimings], None]` | An callback method that will be called with the timings results |
```

Author: done
thx

# Customize Query

---

{NOTE: }

* Use the below customization methods over a specific [query](../../../client-api/session/querying/how-to-query).  

* The customization methods can be set for both **dynamic** and **index** queries.  

> * A query can also be customized on the Store or Session level by by calling `add_before_query`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A query can be customized on the Store or Session level by calling various methods from the rich API.  
```

Author: done
